### Scan Patterns
According to the Helios paper, there are many types of scan patterns that depend on the deflector in the simulation. A rotating mirror creates many parallel lines with even point density, a fibre-optic scanner creates a similar pattern but without moving parts (the laser is spread through many evenly spaced fibre-optic cables), an oscillating mirror creates a sig-zag pattern, with high point densities at the extrema, and the palmer scanner (a slanted oscillating mirror) creates circular scan patterns.

### LiDAR Pulses
In order to sense the environment around itself, a LiDAR sends out pulses of light. Sending out a constant beam would make it really difficult to know how long it took for the light to come back to the sensor, so a pulse is sent out and the sensor waits for the pulse to come back. These pulses can be configured to do many different things. The pulse shape is the temporal profile of the pulse- how long does it take to rise and fall? How long is the pulse itxelf? What is its peak intensity? There are many things to consider when picking a pulse shape. For example, a longer pulse requires more energy, so they require higher power levels. Additionally, a longer pulse will travel further, but sacrifice resolution, as a shorter pulse will be more exact. 

### What is a simulation step?
#### According to the [Carlsson Paper](https://www.foi.se/rest-api/report/FOI-R--0163--SE)
A simulation step projects the 3D view to a depth buffer, with normal data. Each pixel is treated as a laser beam and receiver cell. Each pixel is then divided into a subarea, where each subarea is basically a surface with the properties of the center pixel. Then, the irradiance of the beam is calculated, along with the speckle and turbulance, in order to determine the total laser pule energy is each subarea to represent the reflected pulse power. (Speckle is the random pattern that a laser beam exhibits when reflected off of a rough surface, and turbulance is how much of the light actually makes it to the surface due to disturbances in the air and its refractive index).

#### According to [HELIOS++](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.09154.pdf)
HELIOS+ structures each scene with the platform, which is where the sensor is attached, waypoints, which define the path of movment for the sensor, and parts, which are items in the virtual world that could obstruct the sensor. Each step can be visualized in real time. Various scan deflectors can be selected, which will define the pattern that the sensor will emit the lasers in (see section above). Finally, the waveforms themselves are formed by a central ray and many subrays, as specified by the Carlsson paper. Beam divergence (the subrays) are calculated using a Gaussian power distribution. Each subray is assigned its respective intensity and cast into the scene, and the total power returned depends on all of the subrays and their intersections. Various subray configurations and densities can be configured as well. Finally, the pulse shape, which is the temportal profile of the beam, is approximated according to the Carlsson paper with a specific power equation. For each pulse, the subrays are collected as a full waveform, and the power is a sum of the subray's waveforms, shifted according to their respective ranges depending on their power. 
#### According to [PHD Paper by Tallavajhula](https://icave2.cse.buffalo.edu/resources/sensor-modeling/Lidar%20Simulation%20for%20Robotic%20Application.pdf)